References 14 CFR parts 61, 91; FAA-H-8083-15, FAA-H-8083-16; IFP; AIM
Objective To determine the applicant exhibits satisfactory knowledge, risk management, and skills associated with performing precision approach procedures solely by reference to instruments.
Note: See Appendix 7: Aircraft, Equipment, and Operational Requirements & Limitations for related considerations.

Knowledge
IR.VI.B.K1 Procedures and limitations associated with a precision approach, including determining required descent rates and adjusting minimums in the case of inoperative equipment.
IR.VI.B.K2 Navigation system displays, annunciations, and modes of operation.
IR.VI.B.K3 Ground-based and satellite-based navigation (orientation, course determination, equipment, tests and regulations, interference, appropriate use of navigation data, signal integrity)
IR.VI.B.K4 A stabilized approach, to include energy management concepts

Risk Management
IR.VI.B.R1 Failure to follow the correct approach procedure (e.g. descending below the glideslope, etc.).
IR.VI.B.R2 Selecting an incorrect navigation frequency.
IR.VI.B.R3 Failure to manage automated navigation and autoflight systems.
IR.VI.B.R4 Failure to ensure proper airplane configuration during an approach and missed approach.
IR.VI.B.R5 An unstable approach including excessive descent rates.
IR.VI.B.R6 Deteriorating weather conditions on approach.
IR.VI.B.R7 Continuing to descend below the Decision Altitude (DA)/Decision Height (DH) when the required visual references are not visible.

Skills
IR.VI.B.S1 Accomplish the precision instrument approach(es) selected by the evaluator.
IR.VI.B.S2 Establish two-way communications with ATC appropriate for the phase of flight or approach segment, and use proper communication phraseology.
IR.VI.B.S3 Select, tune, identify, and confirm the operational status of navigation equipment to be used for the approach.
IR.VI.B.S4 Comply with all clearances issued by ATC or the evaluator.
IR.VI.B.S5 Recognize if any flight instrumentation is inaccurate or inoperative, and take appropriate action.
IR.VI.B.S6 Advise ATC or the evaluator if unable to comply with a clearance.
IR.VI.B.S7 Complete the appropriate checklist.
IR.VI.B.S8 Establish the appropriate airplane configuration and airspeed considering turbulence and windshear.
IR.VI.B.S9 Maintain altitude ±100 feet, selected heading ±10°, airspeed ±10 knots, and accurately track radials, courses, and bearings, prior to beginning the final approach segment.
IR.VI.B.S10 Adjust the published DA/DH and visibility criteria for the aircraft approach category, as appropriate, to account for NOTAMs, Inoperative airplane or navigation equipment, or inoperative visual aids associated with the landing environment.
IR.VI.B.S11 Establish a predetermined rate of descent at the point where vertical guidance begins, which approximates that required for the airplane to follow the vertical guidance.
IR.VI.B.S12 Maintain a stabilized final approach from the Final Approach Fix (FAF) to DA/DH allowing no more than ¾-scale deflection of either the vertical or lateral guidance indications and maintain the desired airspeed ±10 knots.
IR.VI.B.S13 Immediately initiate the missed approach procedure when at the DA/DH, and the required visual references for the runway are not unmistakably visible and identifiable.
IR.VI.B.S14 Transition to a normal landing approach (missed approach for seaplanes) only when the airplane is in a position from which a descent to a landing on the runway can be made at a normal rate of descent using normal maneuvering.
IR.VI.B.S15 Maintain a stabilized visual flight path from the DA/DH to the runway aiming point where a normal landing may be accomplished within the touchdown zone.
IR.VI.B.S16 Use an MFD and other graphical navigation displays, if installed, to monitor position, track wind drift, and to maintain situational awareness.
