References 14 CFR part 91; FAA-H-8083-25, AC 00-6; AC 00-45, AIM
Objective To determine the applicant exhibits satisfactory knowledge, risk management, and skills associated with obtaining, understanding, and applying weather information for a flight under IFR.

Knowledge
IR.I.B.K1 Sources of weather data (e.g., National Weather Service, Flight Service) for flight planning purposes.
IR.I.B.K2 Acceptable weather products and resources utilized for preflight planning, current and forecast weather for departure and en route operations and arrival phases of flight.
IR.I.B.K3 Meteorology applicable to the departure, en route, alternate, and destination for flights conducted under Instrument Flight Rules (IFR) to include expected climate and hazardous conditions such as:
IR.I.B.K3a a. Atmospheric composition and stability
IR.I.B.K3b b. Wind (e.g., crosswind, tailwind, windshear, mountain wave, etc.)
IR.I.B.K3c c. Temperature
IR.I.B.K3d d. Moisture/precipitation
IR.I.B.K3e e. Weather system formation, including air masses and fronts
IR.I.B.K3f f. Clouds
IR.I.B.K3g g. Turbulence
IR.I.B.K3h h. Thunderstorms and microbursts
IR.I.B.K3i i. Icing and freezing level information
IR.I.B.K3j j. Fog/mist
IR.I.B.K3k k. Frost
IR.I.B.K3l l. Obstructions to visibility (e.g., smoke, haze, volcanic ash, etc.)
IR.I.B.K4 Flight deck displays of digital weather and aeronautical information.

Risk Management
IR.I.B.R1 Factors involved in making the go/no-go and continue/divert decisions, to include:
IR.I.B.R1a a. Circumstances that would make diversion prudent
IR.I.B.R1b b. Personal Weather Minimums
IR.I.B.R1c c. Hazardous weather conditions to include known or forecast icing or turbulence aloft
IR.I.B.R2 Limitations of:
IR.I.B.R2a a. Onboard weather equipment
IR.I.B.R2b b. Aviation weather reports and forecasts
IR.I.B.R2c c. Inflight weather resources

Skills
IR.I.B.S1 Use available aviation weather resources to obtain an adequate weather briefing.
IR.I.B.S2 Analyze the implications of at least three of the conditions listed in K3a through K3l above, using actual weather or weather conditions in a scenario provided by the evaluator.
IR.I.B.S3 Correlate weather information to make a competent go/no-go decision.
IR.I.B.S4 Determine whether an alternate airport is required, and, if required, whether the selected alternate airport meets regulatory requirements.
