References 14 CFR parts 61, 91; FAA-H-8083-15, FAA-H-8083-16; AIM
Objective To determine the applicant exhibits satisfactory knowledge, risk management, and skills associated with holding procedures solely by reference to instruments.

Knowledge
IR.III.B.K1 Elements related to holding procedures, including reporting criteria, appropriate speeds, and recommended entry procedures for standard, nonstandard, published, and nonpublished holding patterns.

Risk Management
IR.III.B.R1 Recalculating fuel reserves if assigned an unanticipated EFC time.
IR.III.B.R2 Scenarios and circumstances that could result in minimum fuel or the need to declare an emergency.
IR.III.B.R3 Scenarios that could lead to holding, including deteriorating weather at the planned destination.
IR.III.B.R4 Improper holding entry and improper wind correction while holding.

Skills
IR.III.B.S1 Explain and use an entry procedure that ensures the airplane remains within the holding pattern airspace for a standard, nonstandard, published, or non-published holding pattern.
IR.III.B.S2 Change to the holding airspeed appropriate for the altitude or airplane when 3 minutes or less from, but prior to arriving at, the holding fix and set appropriate power as needed for fuel conservation.
IR.III.B.S3 Recognize arrival at the holding fix and promptly initiate entry into the holding pattern.
IR.III.B.S4 Maintain airspeed ±10 knots, altitude ±100 feet, selected headings within ±10°, and track a selected course, radial, or bearing within ¾-scale deflection of the CDI.
IR.III.B.S5 Use proper wind correction procedures to maintain the desired pattern and to arrive over the fix as close as possible to a specified time and maintain pattern leg lengths when specified.
IR.III.B.S6 Use an MFD and other graphical navigation displays, if installed, to monitor position in relation to the desired flightpath during holding.
IR.III.B.S7 Comply with ATC reporting requirements and restrictions associated with the holding pattern.
IR.III.B.S8 Demonstrate SRM
