References 14 CFR parts 61, 91; FAA-H-8083-15, FAA-H-8083-16; AFM; AIM
Note: The evaluator must reference the manufacturer’s equipment supplement(s) as necessary for appropriate limitations, procedures, etc.
Objective To determine the applicant exhibits satisfactory knowledge, risk management, and skills associated with intercepting and tracking navigation aids and arcs solely by reference to instruments.

Knowledge
IR.V.A.K1 Ground-based navigation (orientation, course determination, equipment, tests and regulations) including procedures for intercepting and tracking courses and arcs.
IR.V.A.K2 Satellite-based navigation (orientation, course determination, equipment, tests and regulations, interference, appropriate use of databases, RAIM, and WAAS) including procedures for intercepting and tracking courses and arcs.

Risk Management
IR.V.A.R1 Failure to manage automated navigation and autoflight systems.
IR.V.A.R2 Distractions, loss of situational awareness, or improper task management.
IR.V.A.R3 Limitations of the navigation system in use.

Skills
IR.V.A.S1 Tune and correctly identify the navigation facility/program the navigation system and verify system accuracy as appropriate for the equipment installed in the airplane.
IR.V.A.S2 Determine airplane position relative to the navigational facility or waypoint.
IR.V.A.S3 Set and correctly orient to the course to be intercepted.
IR.V.A.S4 Intercept the specified course at appropriate angle, inbound to or outbound from a navigational facility or waypoint.
IR.V.A.S5 Maintain airspeed ±10 knots, altitude ±100 feet, and selected headings ±5°.
IR.V.A.S6 Apply proper correction to maintain a course, allowing no more than ¾-scale deflection of the CDI. If a DME arc is selected, maintain that arc ±1 nautical mile.
IR.V.A.S7 Recognize navigational system or facility failure, and when required, report the failure to ATC.
IR.V.A.S8 Use an MFD and other graphical navigation displays, if installed, to monitor position, track wind drift, and to maintain situational awareness.
IR.V.A.S9 Use the autopilot to make appropriate course intercepts, if installed.
