References 14 CFR parts 61, 91; FAA-H-8083-15, FAA-H-8083-16; AC 91-74; AFM; AIM
Objective To determine the applicant exhibits satisfactory knowledge, risk management, and skills associated with IFR departure, en route, and arrival operations solely by reference to instruments.
Note: See Appendix 7: Aircraft, Equipment, and Operational Requirements & Limitations for related considerations.

Knowledge
IR.V.B.K1 Elements related to ATC routes, including departure procedures (DPs) and associated climb gradients; arrival procedures (STARs) and associated constraints.
IR.V.B.K2 Pilot/controller responsibilities, communication procedures, and ATC services available to pilots.

Risk Management
IR.V.B.R1 Failure to communicate with ATC or follow published procedures.
IR.V.B.R2 Failure to recognize limitations of traffic avoidance equipment.
IR.V.B.R3 Failure to use see and avoid techniques when possible.

Skills The applicant demonstrates the ability to:
IR.V.B.S1 Select, identify (as necessary) and use the appropriate communication and navigation facilities associated with the proposed flight.
IR.V.B.S2 Perform the appropriate airplane checklist items relative to the phase of flight.
IR.V.B.S3 Use the current and appropriate paper or electronic navigation publications..
IR.V.B.S4 Establish two-way communications with the proper controlling agency, use proper phraseology, and comply in a timely manner with all ATC instructions and airspace restrictions, and exhibit adequate knowledge of communication failure procedures.
IR.V.B.S5 Intercept all courses, radials, and bearings appropriate to the procedure, route, or clearance in a timely manner.
IR.V.B.S6 Comply with all applicable charted procedures.
IR.V.B.S7 Maintain airspeed ±10 knots, altitude ±100 feet, and selected headings ±10°, and apply proper correction to maintain a course allowing no more than ¾-scale deflection of the CDI.
IR.V.B.S8 Update/interpret weather in flight.
IR.V.B.S9 Explain and use flight deck displays of digital weather and aeronautical information, as applicable.
IR.V.B.S10 Demonstrate SRM.
